In this tutorial, we will create a main menu. I added two paths to PublicIncludePaths beforehand.
We will have to create some C ++ classes for the game mode, controller, HUD and main menu widget.
For the main menu, we will create a separate level that will be loaded when the project starts.
In the main menu, you can create settings, make a choice of level.
Plus, the game maps can take a long time to load. Depends on the complexity of the level, so it is logical that
when you start our game, a level will open, which loads quickly enough.
Let's create a menu folder that will store all the assets that are directly related to the main menu,
so as not to interfere with the game assets. I created a completely empty level. I called it MenuLevel.
We will work with the menu level in several lessons, so I recommend changing the map
in the project settings , which is loaded in the editor by default. Find the maps & modes category
and change the editor startupmap to menu level. Game Default Map also needs to be changed
to MenuLevel - this map that is loaded in the packaged version of the game. I will talk about this
at the very end of the section. The level classes are not configured, we will have to create them now. We will try to
get by with the minimum amount. We will definitely need the game mode class - the main class of the level.
Find game mode base.
We name the class STUMenuGameModeBase.
Additionally, we specify the menu directory. Click on create class.
The next class we need is the controller class.
We need to make the default input for the user interface, show the cursor,
so we call our class STUMenuPlayerController in the menu directory.
Click on create class.
Next we need a HUD class. In it we will create the main widget for the menu.
We call the class STUMenuHUD.
Add to the Menu / UI directory.
And the last class we need is the main widget class. We find UserWidget in the search.
We call it STUMenuWidget.
And create it in the Menu / UI directory.
We start with the game mode class, there will be nothing super new in this lesson, we are already familiar with everything.
I created a constructor in advance in game mode, connected our new controller and HUD,
so in the constructor we simply specify these classes for game mode.
Next, we move to playercontroller. I created the BeginPlay function beforehand and here we need to specify two things.
First, let's call the SetupInputMode function and pass a parameter to it that is responsible for the UI input.
At this level, we will only have input available for the interface.
Let's make the mouse cursor visible by setting the bShowMouseCursor variable to true.
All the controller is ready, then we move to the HUD menu. Here we will create a main menu widget,
so we need a property to store the main menu class.
I also created the BeginPlay function in advance and also added the include with the user widget.
We check the validity of the menu widget class. In fact, you don't need to do this, because
this check already exists inside the create widget function.
Set the local variable menu widget to the value returned by the CreateWidget function.
If the menu widget has been created, then add it to the viewport. In our level, there will be
only one widget in the main menu , so we will not need any additional tricks with visibility.
The code for the HUD menu is ready. Moving on to the menu widget. In this lesson, we will create just
one button in the widget - start game, which will start the game level.
We need a button. Add a forward declaration for the UButton. In the protected section, add the property of the button.
Create a private section and add a function that will be called when the start game button is pressed.
Move to the .cpp file. I have included all the header files we need in advance
and also created the NativeOnInitialzied function.
Add a callback for the OnClicked delegate of the StartGameButton.
And in the OnStartGameButton function, we will simply load the level by name.
Let's create a local variable StartupLevelName.
Let's assign it the string literal TestLevel - the name of our game level. For now,
let's leave the hardcode behind for this tutorial . We load the level using the already familiar OpenLevel function from the GameStatics library
and pass the level name into it. We figured out the C ++ classes. Compile the code.
First, let's create a blueprint class for game mode. Put in the menu folder.
Let's create a UI folder.
Next, we go into
our C ++ classes and create a blueprint class for the HUD.
Let's put it in the UI subdirectory.
In world settings, set our new BP_STUGameModeBase.
And also change the class for the HUD.
We will create a blueprint widget for the menu based on the
game pause widget, so just copy it and paste it into the UI directory.
We call it WBP_Menu.
Open asset.
Change the title to main menu.
Change the text on the button to start game.
And also change the parent class for the given blueprint widget. We specify STU_MenuWidget.
The button must be named StartGameButton.
And in the HUD menu, you need to specify a class for the widget menu. We indicate WBP_Menu.
Everything is ready for us. Let's test it. Click play.
An empty level has opened with the main widget. Click start game. Our main level has started.
Let's replace the black color, for this it is enough to add exponential fog to the scene and in the details settings
set some color to the property default light color. Suitable for the initial version.
Thus, in this lesson, we have created all the necessary classes for the main menu level.